This is pfw, a web based front end for [OpenBSD's firewall pf](http://www.openbsd.org/faq/pf/), written in [PHP](http://www.php.net).

---

> **This is the final resting place for PFW.** 
> __The code is not maintained.__ 
> **Please feel free to fork and continue the work.**

---

A couple of things doesn't work, because it would make things overly complicated, or
that it doesn't make sense in a web interface. A couple of examples:

  * timeout settings on a an individual rule basis. Adding this will
    increase the complexity of the rulebase quite substantailly.
  * source-hash keys, pf makes perfectly good strong keys by itself.
  * set require-order, pfw will make order out of chaos. It will
    not be possible to have disorder in the ruleset when using pfw.


To install pfw, follow these steps.
-----------------------------------

1.  Make sure you have PHP version 5.0 or later installed (php -v reveals
the version number).

2.  Make sure you have sqlite and the PHP sqlite module installed. To test:

        php -i | grep SQLite

3.  Unpack the pfw archive somewhere reachable by your webserver. In this
document, it is assumed that you have installed pfw in
`/var/www/pfw` and it doesn't matter where you installed it. As long as you
change everything accordingly.

4.  Install the sqlite database and then:

        cd /var/www/pfw && sqlite conf/config.db < docs/sql/sqlite.sql

5. Make sure that the web server has write access to the conf directory 

        cd /var/www/pfw && chown -R www:www conf

6. Add the following to your /var/www/conf/httpd.conf

        Alias /pfw "/var/www/pfw/web/"
        <Directory "/var/www/pfw/web">
            AllowOverride None
            Order allow,deny
            Allow from 127.0.0.1
        </Directory>

  This will allow you to access pfw from 127.0.0.1 only (or tunneled through
  ssh). Please change this to suit your needs. There is currently no builtin 
  authentication in pfw so please read the [Apache authentication documentation ](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/howto/auth.html) 
  and add authentication accordingly.

7.  pfw needs Apache to run in non-chrooted mode (otherwise, it can't
access /etc/pf.conf) so add httpd_flags="-u" to your /etc/rc.conf.local
and start apache by issuing 'httpd -u'. In almost all cases, you will
want to add SSL to your apache config as well. Please read ssl(8) and
then add httpd_flags="-u -DSSL" and start apache by issuing 'httpd -u
-DSSL'.

        echo 'httpd -u -DSSL' >> /etc/rc.conf.local

8.  pfw relies on sudo to perform privileged operations and sudo needs to
be configured for this. You need to a add this to `/etc/sudoers`: 

        echo "www ALL = NOPASSWD: /var/www/pfw/bin/*" >> /etc/sudoers

Feel free to verify the scripts in the bin directory to see that they don't do anything you wouldn't want before doing this.

That's it. Pfw is now installed and ready to be used.

Enjoy!
